Welcome back!
Preparing for
job interviews in the security
field is such an exciting process.
You've learned a lot through this
program that can help you stand out
as a candidate.
Let's discuss some useful interview
strategies to consider when speaking to an employer.
Your interviewer is going to ask
several questions when you meet.
Carefully consider each
question before responding.
Let's discuss the STAR method, which
can help you prepare for interviews.
The STAR Method is a technique
used to answer behavioral and
situational interview questions.
Using this method is a great way to help
you understand each interview question and
provide a thoughtful and
thorough response.
STAR stands for: Situation, Task,
Action, Result.
The STAR method is typically used to
answer open-ended questions such as:
"Tell me about a time when you
encountered a challenge on the job?"
Let's go through an example of how this
question could be answered using the STAR method.
The situation: Two people needed to
stay home for work due to illness, and
I was the only person
available to assist customers.
The task: I needed to answer phone
calls from customers, while assisting
shoppers in the store.
The action: I came up with a strategy that
allowed me to assist customers as they
entered the store while also ensuring
that customers who called were helped or
politely placed on hold until I
was able to address their needs.
The result: I managed the in-store
operations for the day without many
mistakes, and my manager complimented
me during the next team meeting.
Hopefully this example highlights the
benefits of answering open-ended interview
questions using the STAR method.
But the STAR method isn't the only
strategy you can use during an interview.
You can also answer
questions with confidence.
One way to demonstrate confidence is by
admitting when you don't know something.
For example, if an interviewer asks you
to discuss a skill that you don't have,
it's okay to admit you
haven't learned it yet.
However, the trick is to confidently
mention that while you don't have that
particular skill, you're a quick learner
and eager to develop that skill.
Treat it as an opportunity to
emphasize your ability to adapt and
learn on the job, which shows confidence!
You know what else shows confidence?
Taking the time to fully
understand a problem or
question to provide the best solution or
answer possible.
When interviewing,
don't be afraid to ask the interviewer for
a moment to think about your answer.
It shows that you're willing to take the
time needed to understand the question and
provide a response that is meaningful and
relevant.
We've discussed a few strategies that can
help you overcome the nervousness you may feel
about interviewing for a job.
Coming up, we'll continue to explore
ways to prepare for interviews.